Modeling real-world physical systems is one of the most fundamental aspects of understanding human intelligence. A physical system can be modeled as the objects in the system and pair-wise interactions between objects. Simulation in the physical system requires the model to learn the law of the system and make predictions about the next state of the system. By modeling the objects as nodes and pair-wise interactions as edges, the systems can be simplified as graphs. For example, in particle systems, particles can interact with each other via multiple interactions, including collision (Hoshen, 2017), spring connection, electromagnetic force (Kipf et al., 2018), etc., where particles are seen as nodes and interactions are seen as edges. Another example is the robotic system, which is formed by multiple bodies (e.g., arms, legs) connected with joints. The bodies and joints can be seen as nodes and edges, respectively. The model needs to infer the next state of the bodies based on the current state of the system and the principles of physics.

Before the advent of graph neural networks, works process the graph representation of the systems using the available neural blocks. Interaction Networks (Battaglia et al., 2016) utilizes MLP to encode the incidence matrices of the graph. CommNet (Sukhbaatar reguest et al., 2016) performs nodes updates using the nodes' previous representations and the average of all nodes' previous representations. VAIN (Hoshen, 2017) further introduces the attention mechanism. VIN (Watters et al., 2017) combines CNNs, RNNs and IN (Battaglia et al., 2016).

The emergence of GNNs let us perform GNN-based reasoning about objects, relations, and physics in a simplified but effective way. NRI (Kipf et al., 2018) takes the trajectory of objects as input and infers an explicit interaction graph, and learns a dynamic model simultaneously. The interaction graphs are learned from former trajectories, and trajectory predictions are generated from decoding the interaction graphs.

Sanchez et al. (2018) propose a Graph Network-based model to encode the graph formed by bodies and joints of a robotic system. They further learn the policy of stably controlling the system by combining GNs with Reinforcement learning.