The knowledge graph (KG) represents a collection of real-world entities and the relational facts between pairs of the entities. It has wide application, such as question answering, information retrieval and knowledge guided generation. Tasks on KGs include learning low-dimensional embeddings which contain rich semantics for the entities and relations, predicting the missing links between entities, and multi-hop reasoning over the knowledge graph. One line of research treats the graph as a collection of triples, and proposes various kinds of loss functions to distinguish the correct triples and false triples (Bordes et al., 2013). The other line leverages the graph nature of KG, and uses GNN-based methods for various tasks. When treated as a graph, KG can be seen as a heterogeneous graph. However, unlike other heterogeneous graphs such as social networks, the logical relations are of more importance than the pure graph structure.

R-GCN (Schlichkrull et al., 2018) is the first work to incorporate GNNs for knowledge graph embedding. To deal with various relations, R-GCN proposes relation-specific transformation in the message passing steps. Structure-Aware Convolutional Network (Shang et al., 2019) combines a GCN encoder and a CNN decoder together for better knowledge representations.

A more challenging setting is knowledge base completion for out-of-knowledge-base (OORE) entities. The OOKB entities are unseen in the training set, but directly connect to the observed entities in the training set. The embeddings of OOKB entities can be aggregated from the observed entities. Hamaguchi et al. (2017) use GNNs to solve the problem, which achieve satisfying performance both in the standard KBC setting and the OOKB setting.

Besides knowledge graph representation learning, Wang et al. (2018b) utilize GCN to solve the cross-lingual knowledge graph alignment problem. The model embeds entities from different languages into a unified embedding space and aligns them based on the embedding similarity. To align large-scale heterogeneous knowledge graphs, OAG (Zhang et al., 2019) uses graph attention networks to model various types of entities. With representing entities as their surrounding subgraphs, Xu et al. (2019c) transfer the entity alignment problem to a graph matching problem and then solve it by graph matching networks.